Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain a drama, mystery,
sci-fi film called "The Vast of Night."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In Cayuga, New Mexico, a young disc jockey
named Everett lends his equipment for a high
school basketball game.
He notices the lights flicker in the gym,
worrying that it could affect the event.
Everett lends a recorder to Benny and Sam,
who are the school's sports commentators.
Everett agrees to help a student named Fay
test out her tape recorder before Mrs. McBroom
finds him.
She takes Everett to the lockers, where Arlo
is trying to fix the electric wiring.
But Arlo asked for Emmett, not Everett, starting
an argument between him and Mrs. McBroom.
Everett leaves, knowing that he can't help
them.
As the audience arrives at the gym, Everett
walks out with Fay to test her tape recorder.
Fay records random sentences and is glad to
hear that the recorder works.
Upon Everett's insistence, Fay practices being
a reporter by interviewing a family that just
parked in the parking lot.
Everett confidently jokes around with the
family while Fay still feels awkward.
While they continue practicing interviews,
they meet with Mr. Stemmons, but Everett claims
the recorder is broken, scaring Fay.
Once they're out of earshot, Everett admits
that he lied, wanting to get out of the conversation
with a boring person like Mr. Stemmons.
Fay feels bad about lying, but Everett thinks
it's preventing people from embarrassing themselves.
They're stopped by Pappy Fred and his family,
who Fay attempts to interview as well.
Fay is excited when Everett gives her an idea
of starting her show.
Pappy Fred's wife, Marjorie, tries to get
Fay to spill gossip, but her husband gets
pissed.
Everett pulls Fay out of the scene, not wanting
to get involved.
While heading to the telephone exchange where
Fay works, she shares articles from the science
magazine that she's been reading to Everett.
The articles suggest self-driving cars, hyperspeed
trains, and pocket-sized T.V. phones in the
near future.
Upon reaching the telephone exchange, Everett
bids her goodbye, heading back to his radio
station to start his program.
Inside, Fay chats with her co-worker about
her tape recorder and the basketball game
at the gym.
When her co-worker leaves, Fay sets up her
desk, beginning her shift as a switchboard
operator.
She takes a call, but the line disconnects
as soon as she answers.
To pass the time, she turns on the radio and
listens to Everett's program, but the frequency
distorts.
A strange humming comes from the radio, confusing
Fay.
She answers another call but instead hears
Everett's radio program on the other end before
the line distorts again with no one answering.
Concerned, Fay calls another switchboard operator
named Winnie, letting her listen to the distorted
frequency.
Before Winnie can identify it, Fay gets another
call and answers it.
On the other end, a panicked woman describes
a large object above her land and the wind
gushing like a tornado.
She tells Fay to call the police while she
hides in the cellar before the line disconnects.
After the call drops, Fay listens to the electrical
humming intently, studying its pattern.
When she gets no answer from the police station,
she calls another operator, Josie, who tells
her that a trucker asked the police for help.
According to the trucker, a whirlwind caused
the truck to spill its contents all over the
road.
Hearing that no officers are available, Fay
answers Winnie's call.
Fay tells her about the other woman's call,
but the line drops suddenly.
This time, she calls home and talks to her
sister's babysitter, Ethel, asking if she
can listen to the radio to check the sound.
Ethel suggests that she call Everett instead,
then the line drops again.
Fay calls her neighbor, Grace, asking if she
can check on Ethel, concerned about her and
her sister.
Grace agrees, promising to call back.
Suddenly, the radio starts playing again.
Fay listens to it as she waits for Grace's
call, still concerned about the strange electrical
hums and the calls that keep dropping.
Plagued by her thoughts, Fay finally gives
Everett a call to ask for his help.
She lets him listen to the humming sound and
tells him about the strange woman's call and
all the calls that got cut.
Everett plays back his radio program's recording,
finding the same humming.
The two wonder if it's a military code that
got caught in their frequency.
Hoping to learn more, Everett plays the sound
in his program, asking the listeners to call
if they know anything about it.
As the sound plays, Fay lights a cigarette
and waits.
Back at the school gym, most of the townsfolk
cheer for their high school basketball team,
with Benny and Sam commentating on the game.
Behind the school, Everett hangs outside his
radio station when the phone rings.
Fay announces that he has a caller, a guy
from out of town named Billy.
Everett puts Billy on the program to tell
his story.
Billy was in the military and was assigned
jobs that he didn't understand.
One night, his superior woke him up and loaded
him on a carrier plane.
The plane picked up other men from different
bases before arriving at their destination.
He and the others were then loaded into a
bus with blackened windows, preventing them
from seeing where they were going.
They were taken to an unknown desert filled
with tents and bunkers, similar to a testing
site.
A superior warns them that everything they
see and do there is classified.
For days, Billy and his group dug a large
square hole and built walls and windows for
a viewing room.
One day, Billy woke up, and something enormous
was suddenly in the hole that they dug up,
covered in a tarp.
The thing was kept under strict surveillance,
preventing anyone from seeing what's inside.
Billy and the rest were then ordered to build
a ceiling over it before being sent back to
their original posts.
But before their plane took off, the radio
played the same humming sound.
Once the plane leaves, the men below covered
the airstrip with dirt to cover their tracks.
The sound disappeared when they got far enough.
After Billy got back home, he got sick and
developed lung disease, believing that the
area caused it due to radiation.
Billy met with one of the other guys he worked
with at the desert, who confirms that he got
sick too.
The man recounted being taken to the Colorado
River, where a river barge carried something
twice its size.
Upon reaching a makeshift radio station by
the river, they unloaded the cargo onto two
army trucks.
The same humming sound started on all the
radios again until the army trucks left.
Then, Billy met a radar operator at the Walker
base, who claims that the sound wasn't military
from any country.
It was coming from space.
He claims that the signals have been coming
back and forth for years as if communicating.
Suddenly, Billy's call gets cut.
Everett pauses the program to ask Fay what
happened.
But Fay can't call him back cause she doesn't
know where he lives.
To their surprise, Billy calls again.
He refuses to give them his real number and
name.
He admits that he shared his story with Everett
because he wanted someone to listen to their
story.
He reveals that he's an African-American man,
and all those who were detailed in those strange
tasks were also African-American or Mexican.
Billy thinks that they were chosen on purpose
because no one will listen to them if they
shared the stories.
Everett demands more evidence that the story
is real.
Billy continues that the radar operator didn't
stop investigating the signals after he retired.
He recorded the sound and made copies sent
to all the other soldiers who encountered
it.
When Billy received his copy and played it,
he became frightened as it is the exact sound
from the desert.
Billy burned the tape, not wanting to be caught
with it.
However, someone in Cayuga was also stationed
in one of these details, and he probably still
has his tape.
Billy identifies him as Raymond Buck, who
already passed away.
Fay remembers that his wife donated all his
tapes to the library.
Despite Everett pointing out that no one will
watch the switchboard if she leaves, Fay insists
on finding that tape, given that everyone
is at the game tonight and no one will call.
Billy tells them they should find the tape
and play it soon, as whatever keeps playing
that sound won't stay for long.
Brimming with curiosity, Fay holds her breath,
waiting for Everett's decision.
When Everett tells her to go, she immediately
leaves her post and runs to the library.
Fay heads to a house and takes a spare key
to the library.
Then, she takes a bike as she makes her way
Upon reaching it, she collects all the tapes
from the basement.
When she heads out, Everett is outside with
a stolen car.
They drive back to the radio station, and
Fay picks up the phone, asking Billy which
tape it could be.
The line gets cut, but Fay cannot reconnect
him until she goes back to the switchboards.
Everett tells her not to go and play the tapes
until they find the right one instead.
Everett takes the tapes one by one, playing
them to check what they contain.
Fay asks him if he's worried that this broadcast
will get him in trouble, but Everett admits
that he doesn't care.
Whatever happens in the broadcast will be
enough to land him a better job elsewhere.
Fay dreams of going to a bigger city too but
doesn't think she'll be able to go to college.
Everett finally finds the correct tape, listening
to the humming sound.
He broadcasts it on the radio station, asking
Billy to call them again if it's the correct
one.
The hum grows louder until the station's power
goes out.
Fay is scared in the dark, agitating Everett.
They head outside and see light everywhere
else except for the station.
Everett and Fay drive back to the telephone
exchange as they share theories on what the
sound is.
Fay reaches the switchboard, where numerous
calls are waiting.
She tends to all the calls hurriedly, with
many of them claiming that there's something
in the sky.
They head back out and meet with passersby,
Bertsie and Gerald, who have been following
the strange object in the sky.
They share information until the switchboard
rings again.
The woman on the other end, Mabel, asks to
speak to Everett.
Mabel claims that she has more information
about the humming sound, but she insists that
he visits her house, where she'll tell her
story.
Interested, Everett asks for her address and
heads to her home.
Everett drives with Fay to Mabel's house while
Bertsi and Gerald stay to keep watch.
They reach the home and enter, seeing the
pitch darkness inside.
The two approach Mabel's sitting room, where
she's reading something in a foreign language.
Mabel offers them a seat and agrees to broadcast
her story about the people in the sky to Everett's
radio program.
When she was a little girl, an empty passenger
train was found near Cayuga.
People assumed the Apaches took the passengers,
naming the event as the Boles Acres Raid.
A few days later, a wounded woman who'd jumped
off that passenger train was found.
Mabel's friend, Charlotte, and her family
helped the woman.
While waiting for a representative in El Paso
to take her, the woman stayed in Charlotte's
room.
At the time, Mabel also stayed with Charlotte's
family.
One night, they heard the woman sleep talking
in a strange language.
After that night, the woman disappeared, having
stolen a horse to escape.
When Mabel grew up, she fell in love with
Claude, who worked for the telephone company.
But she got pregnant before they could marry.
Claude was assigned out of town, promising
to return for her and their child.
But he died while on the job, leaving Mabel
to raise their son, Hollis, on her own.
One night, as she's nursing Hollis, the baby
spoke his first words.
It was the exact words the woman from the
train said in her sleep.
As Hollis grew up, he fixated on objects and
would hardly respond to others.
Occasionally, Mabel heard him say those strange
words in his sleep, prompting her to write
them down.
When asked what they meant, Hollis didn't
know.
When Hollis was four years old, the wind blew
hard outside, followed by a sound similar
to a giant windmill.
Hollis stared at the window, not responding
to her.
An idea popped into her mind, and Mabel read
the strange words to him.
Hearing her, Hollis stared up at the ceiling,
mouthing the words with her.
When Mabel stopped reading, Hollis snapped
out of the trance and continued to play as
if nothing happened.
Mabel read the words to him again in the next
few days, but he didn't respond at all.
She figured that something was outside their
house that night, telling Hollis something
that she couldn't hear.
When Hollis was nine years old, Mabel sensed
that it was back.
That evening, Hollis walked outside and vanished.
Mabel followed his footprints until they stopped,
but Hollis was nowhere to be found.
This led people to assume that Mabel killed
her son.
Mabel admits that she'd never heard the sound
they broadcasted before, but she insists that
she knows more.
Mabel believes that the people in the sky
are there now.
From what she's experienced, they only visit
small towns and only at the time when people
gather, like how the town gathered for the
game tonight.
The people in the sky talk to those who are
alone while they sleep, playing with their
minds.
She blamed them for other people's selfish
acts, believing that they meant this so conflict
will remain on the planet.
At the end of her story, Everett thanks her
and excuses themselves to leave.
Mabel requests for them to take her to the
ship in the sky to find her son.
Still skeptical, Everett denies.
Instead, Mabel gives him the note where she
wrote the strange words, asking him to say
it to anyone they encounter tonight.
However, Everett doesn't take it and leaves.
Heading outside, Fay is ecstatic, thinking
of borrowing a video camera to capture footage.
But Everett is at his wit's end, not buying
the stories.
Fay's eyes widen as she remembers checking
on Ethel and her sister.
She runs back to her house and picks up her
sister, Maddie, and realizes that Ethel is
nowhere in sight.
Fay heads to the neighbor's house, where she
asks Gretchen to borrow her father's camera.
Everett arrives, angered at Fay for taking
Maddie with them.
He still doubts Mabel and Billy's stories,
but Fay is adamant about knowing more.
They head back to the switchboard center and
receive a call from a panicked Ethel.
She tells Fay that she's watching something
in the sky.
Gerald and Bertsie arrive, telling them that
the object is moving away from the town.
Fay and Everett get into their car as they
follow the object.
Fay shares Ethel's story, describing that
the object in the sky is round and is hiding
in the clouds.
Everett tells them about Mabel's claims that
there are people in the sky who are abducting
other people.
He rewinds his tape recorder, playing the
foreign language that Mabel was saying before
they met her.
Suddenly, Gerald and Bertsie look up at the
car's roof, frozen.
Fay yells to stop the recording as the car
swerves.
She holds onto her baby sister, ordering Everett
to take the wheel from Gerald, who's still
dazed.
Finally, they park the car safely.
The confused Bertsie and Gerald heavily apologize
for what happened.
But Fay is frightened and takes her sister
into the woods, with Everett following close
by.
Tired, Fay kneels on the ground, clutching
her sister as she cries.
Everett stays by her side, calming her, but
notices burnt branches on the ground.
He checks the trees, with some still glowing
with embers.
They search the woods and found a circular
clearing in the branches as if something crashed
through.
With this new discovery, Everett now believes
that the people in the sky are real.
Realizing they're in danger, Fay and Everett
run through the woods, hoping to get to safety.
They stop at a clearing where Everett spots
something in the distance, and slowly walks
to it.
They turn and see the flying alien spaceship
close by.
Frozen in fear, the two watch the spaceship,
with another flying over their heads to meet
with it.
Everett drops his recorder, stunned at the
sight.
The wind picks up, circling them like a small
tornado.
Everett holds Fay and Maddie in his arms protectively
as the night darkens.
Back at high school, the game is over, and
the townspeople head to their homes.
The power in Everett's radio station comes
back as if nothing happened.
In the clearing, Everett's tape recorder is
covered in dirt.
Everett, Fay, and Maddie have disappeared.